Revising the Concepts > Accounts doc. (#1961)
aptos-labs/aptos-core: developer-docs-site/docs/concepts/basics-accounts.md

title: "Accounts"
id: "basics-accounts"
---

# Accounts

> An account on the Aptos Blockchain contains blockchain assets. These assets, for example, coins and NFTs, are by nature scarce and must be access-controlled. Any such asset is represented in the blockchain account as a **resource**. A resource is a Move language primitive that emphasizes on access control and scarcity in its representation of an asset.  

Reviewer: This is true but also not the whole truth, resources aren't necessarily assets, e.g. would you consider a vote to be an asset. Still for an introduction this is still good, but perhaps we need an acknowledgment that resources aren't just assets.

emphasizes on -> emphasizes

> Each account on the Aptos Blockchain is identified by a 32-byte account address. An account can store data and it stores this data in resources. The initial resource is the account data itself (authentication key and sequence number). Additional resources like the currency or NFTs are added after creating the account. 

Reviewer: the currency -> currency

It might be good to include a code block below showing what an account address looks like.

## Creating an account

> When a new account is requested by the user, the [Aptos SDK](https://aptos-labs.github.io/ts-sdk-doc/classes/AptosAccount.html) will perform a series of cryptographic steps to create the account. Below is a conceptual view of these steps:

Reviewer: Not everyone will be creating accounts via this SDK, they might be using some other SDK, the CLI, etc.

- Start by generating a new private key, public key pair.

> - From the user get the preferred signature scheme for the account: If the account should use a single signature or if it should require multiple signatures for signing a transaction. 

Reviewer: This feels perhaps a bit advanced to mention here, I'd probably have section later that refers back to this step saying that there is also a multi signer option.

Author: Rearranged the sections a bit, and replaced the rotating keys section with Account address section.

- Combine the public key with the user's signature scheme to generate a 32-byte authentication key. 

> - Initialize the sequence number to 0. The sequence number represents the next transaction sequence number, to prevent replay attacks of transactions. Both the authentication key and the sequence number are stored in the account as an initial account resource. 

Reviewer: "account sequence number" perhaps.

Reviewer 2: and a sequence number beginning at 0 ... the Sequence number is used by transactions to prevent replay attacks?

> - Create the 32-byte account address from the initial authentication key. 

Reviewer: This is a ceaseless source of confusion, the relationship between pubkey, account, auth key, address. I think we should have a dedicated section that explains exactly how these are related.

Author: Added the Account creation section. We can add more stuff to these sections as the doc evolves organically.

From now on, the user should use the private key for signing the transactions with this account. 

## Signature schemes

An account can send transactions. The Aptos Blockchain supports two signature schemes: 

1. The [Ed25519](https://ed25519.cr.yp.to/) for single signature transactions, and 
2. The MultiEd25519, for multi-signature transactions. 

:::note
The Aptos Blockchain defaults to single signature transactions.
:::

  
## Rotating the keys

> For an existing account you can rotate the private key, public key pair, i.e., use a new pair of private, public keys at regular intervals. To rotate the keys you must pass the current authentication key of your account. This will generate and store a new authentication key in the account. **However, the account address will remain unchanged.**

Reviewer: This feels like a bit of a throwaway section, it's enough to sort of explain that you can do it but doesn't explain how or why. Also I think it should come later, since the previous section was talking about signature schemes.

Author: Added the Account creation section. We can add more stuff to these sections as the doc evolves organically.

## Access control with signer

> The sender of a transaction is represented by a signer. When a `signer` is specified in a function in a transaction, then the `signer` is the only entity capable of adding or removing resources into an account. See the below Move example code with `&signer` in the `initialize` and `withdraw` functions. When a `signer` is not specified in a function, for example, the below `deposit` function, then no access controls exist for this function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sender of a transaction is represented by a signer. When a `signer` is specified in a Move module function, the Move VM will assert that the `signer` of the transaction that triggered that function is the owner of the account. See the below Move example code with `&signer` in the `initialize` and `withdraw` functions. When a `signer` is not specified in a function, for example, the below `deposit` function, then no access controls exist for this function:
```

Author: I deliberately avoided introducing any Move/MoveVM related terms in this intro doc. When I read the above suggestions, I strongly felt I am jumping too ahead of myself by talking about assertions, transactions triggering functions, VM and Move etc. I will table this to cover in a separate doc (I got lots of docs in my head I should write).

Reviewer: We don't have to mention the move VM or use the word "assertion", we could just say "ensure", but I think it's important to phrase it that something ensures that only the owner of the account can run functions that take in the signer. Mentioning adding / removing resources, while simpler, is not actually correct, the check is more general than that. I think as it is now it sells our security model short.

Author: Can you suggest a phrasing here?

Author: How's this, @banool? A slight edit of your suggestion. "The sender of a transaction is represented by a signer. When a `signer` is specified in a Move module function in a transaction, then the Move VM in the Aptos blockchain will assert that the `signer` of the transaction (that triggered that function) is the owner of the account. See the below Move example code with `signer` in the `initialize` and `withdraw` functions. When a `signer` is not specified in a function, for example, the below `deposit` function, then no access controls exist for this function:"

Reviewer: That sounds great, thanks for clarifying this piece.

> ```rust

Reviewer: We don't have Move syntax highlighting yet with our docs site?

Author: Nah, nothing like that exists today.

title: "Accounts"
id: "basics-accounts"
---

# Accounts

> An account on the Aptos Blockchain contains blockchain assets. These assets, for example, coins and NFTs, are by nature scarce and must be access-controlled. Any such asset is represented in the blockchain account as a **resource**. A resource is a Move language primitive that emphasizes access control and scarcity in its representation. However, a resource can be used to represent entities other than assets.

Reviewer 2: other than assets without a qualification is ... a bit weird. I guess you could say other on-chain capabilities, identifying information, and access control.

Each account on the Aptos Blockchain is identified by a 32-byte account address. An account can store data and it stores this data in resources. The initial resource is the account data itself (authentication key and sequence number). Additional resources like currency or NFTs are added after creating the account. 

:::tip Address example
See the [Your First Transaction](/tutorials/first-transaction.md#output) for an example of how an address looks like, reproduced below:
```text
Alice: eeff357ea5c1a4e7bc11b2b17ff2dc2dcca69750bfef1e1ebcaccf8c8018175b
Bob: 19aadeca9388e009d136245b9a67423f3eee242b03142849eb4f81a4a409e59c
```
:::

## Creating an account

> When a new account is requested by the user, for example by using the [Aptos SDK](https://aptos-labs.github.io/ts-sdk-doc/classes/AptosAccount.html), then the following cryptographic steps are executed to create the account. Below is a conceptual view of these steps:

Reviewer 2: re-read... 

When a user ruquests to create an account, by the using the sdk for example, the following steps are executed.

or more succinctly

Account creation follows these cryptographic steps:

- Start by generating a new private key, public key pair.
- From the user get the preferred signature scheme for the account: If the account should use a single signature or if it should require multiple signatures for signing a transaction. 
- Combine the public key with the user's signature scheme to generate a 32-byte authentication key. 
- Initialize the sequence number to 0. The sequence number represents the next transaction sequence number, to prevent replay attacks of transactions. Both the authentication key and the sequence number are stored in the account as an initial account resource. 
- Create the 32-byte account address from the initial authentication key. 

From now on, the user should use the private key for signing the transactions with this account. 

## Account address

> During the new account creation process, a 32-byte authentication key comes to exist first. This authentication key is then returned as it is as the 32-byte account address. Hence, **only initially** the 32-byte authentication key will be the same as the 32-byte account address. However, the authentication key may subsequently change, for example, when you generate a new pair of private key, public keys, to rotate the keys. But the account address will not change. After an account is created, the account address will remain unchanged even though the private key, public key and authentication keys may change. There is nothing called changing the address of the existing account. 

Reviewer 2: The first two sentences need some rearrangements.

I think before you mention only initially, you should mention account key rotation.

3. Use this initial authentication key as the permanent account address.

## Multisigner authentication

With K-of-N multisig authentication, there are a total of N signers for the account, and at least K of those N signatures must be used to authenticate a transaction.

To generate a K-of-N multisig account's authentication key and the account address:

1. **Generate key-pairs**: Generate `N` ed25519 public keys `p_1`, ..., `p_n`.
2. Decide on the value of `K`, the threshold number of signatures needed for authenticating the transaction.
3. **Derive a 32-byte authentication key**: Compute the authentication key as described below:
    ```
    auth_key = sha3-256(p_1 | . . . | p_n | K | 0x01)
    ```
    The `0x01` is the 1-byte multisig scheme identifier.
4. Use this initial authentication key as the permanent account address.

:::tip Accounts on Aptos Testnet
In order to create accounts, the Aptos testnet requires the account's public key and an amount of `Coin<TestCoin>` to add to that account, resulting in the creation of a new account with those two resources.
:::

## Access control with signer

> The sender of a transaction is represented by a signer. When a `signer` is specified in a function in a transaction, then the `signer` is the only entity capable of adding or removing resources into an account. See the below Move example code with `&signer` in the `initialize` and `withdraw` functions. When a `signer` is not specified in a function, for example, the below `deposit` function, then no access controls exist for this function:

Reviewer 2: nit on the & in &signer

> The sender of a transaction is represented by a signer. When a signer is specified in a Move module function in a transaction, then the Move VM in the Aptos blockchain will assert that the signer of the transaction (that triggered that function) is the owner of the account. See the below Move example code with `signer` in the `initialize` and `withdraw` functions. When a `signer` is not specified in a function, for example, the below `deposit` function, then no access controls exist for this function:

Reviewer 2: why is this "when a signer is specified"

The Aptos Move VM adapter translates the identity of the account that signed the transaction into a signer in a Move module entry point...

Reviewer: This is referring to the move function I believe. So perhaps to be clearer it should be "when a function in a Move module takes `signer` as its first argument".
